# AI Generated Text Detection with Deep Learning Approach on Indonesian Text

## Table of Contents
+ [About](#about)
+ [Getting Started](#getting_started)
+ [Usage](#usage)
+ [Lisence](LISENCE)

## About <a name = "about"></a>
Artificial intelligence (AI) has become a popular popular technology that is now widely used by the public. That is due to the emergence of intelligent chatbots from OpenAI, namely ChatGPT. Various groups of people use ChatGPT for different purposes, one of them is students who use ChatGPT to understand material, do assignments, compose essays and paraphrase journals. Paraphrasing on ChatGPT and using paraphrased text as writing in papers can be considered a form of plagiarism. The problem is, to find out whether the text was AI-generated or human-written text, it takes a very long and in-depth understanding of the patterns and arrangement of words in the text. Therefore, we need a system that is able to detect text generated by AI or not. This text detection system uses a deep learning approach. Human text data is collected from the Detik news portal and the Quora question-and-answer website. AI text data is generated through a paraphrasing process on human text data. The vectorization in this research uses Doc2Vec and BERT Tokenizer. The models used in this study were LSTM, GRU, Bi-LSTM, Bi-GRU and BERT with the IndoBERT pre-trained model. Of the five models, the best accuracy on training data is BERT, while the best accuracy in evaluation with data validation is Bi-LSTM and Bi-GRU.

## Getting Started <a name = "getting_started"></a>
These instructions will guide you through installing the project on your local machine for development and testing purposes

### Installing Project
Clone this repository
```
git clone https://github.com/kevin-wijaya/AI-Generated-Text-Detection-with-Deep-Learning-Approach-on-Indonesian-Text.git
```
Initialize and enable the python environment to ensure isolation (Optional)
```
python -m venv .venv && source .venv/scripts/activate
```
Install prerequisite Python packages
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Install the IndoBERT pretrained model from Hugging Face. Please wait, as the model is large and may take several minutes to download. :)
```
git lfs install && git clone https://huggingface.co/indolem/indobert-base-uncased ./models/indolem/indobert-base-uncased
```
Run the python app.py and enjoy :3
```
python app.py
```

### Installing Front-end
Install npm Packages
```
npm install
```
Run Tailwind CSS Watcher
```
npm run css:watch
```

## Usage <a name = "usage"></a>

Add notes about how to use the system.
